---
layout: post
title: Ahalya - Challenging The Ethics And Morality Of the Scriptures
image: 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/argumentativeyouth/modern-gaze/master/assets/img/ahalya-modern-gaze.jpg'
categories: [film]
date: 2020-02-23
---
According to Hindu Mythology, Ahalya, the most beautiful woman on earth, was the wife of much older Maharishi Gautama. 

Indra, the king of gods, was attracted to her divine beauty. He came to Ahalya in the guise of Maharishi Gautama when Gautama himself was not around. They made love. 

Whether or not Ahalya was aware of the fact that it was actually Indra in disguise is debateable. There are different versions of the story of Ahalya. But in all of them, Maharishi Gautama came to know of all that had transpired. And he cursed both Indra and Ahalya. Ahalya is turned into a stone.

Sujoy Ghosh's spooky short film 'Ahalya' challenges the ethics and morality, the right and wrong portrayed in the actual mythical story.

Goutam Sadhu (Soumitra Chatterjee) is a famous artist who creates miniature dolls of real-life people.

Police officer Indra Sen (Tota Roy Chowdhury) visits the house of the artist to inquire about a missing person who was last seen at Sadhu's place. The officer is welcomed by Ahalya, the young wife of the old artist. The police officer is unable to take his eyes off the gorgeous Ahalya.

As Goutam and Indra talks, Ahalya goes upstairs. 

While telling about what could have happened to the missing person, Goutam tells Indra about a magic stone that he possesses which, when touched, can turn a human who touches it to any other human. He says that the missing person might have used it.

To prove it, he lets Goutam to touch the stone and then go upstairs to Ahalya.

Indra, who is clearly attracted to Ahalya, does as he is told.


